Webizen Tech Stack/Core Services/Non-HTTP(s) Protocols.md, before:

Non-HTTP(s) Protocols are helpful for [Decentralised Ontologies](Decentralised%20Ontologies.md), [Permissive Commons](Permissive%20Commons.md), [Verifiable Claims & Credentials](Verifiable%20Claims%20&%20Credentials.md) and in-turn also support for various forms of [Currencies](Currencies.md) (including Micro-Payments), although not exclusively.

A List of examples and candidates include; but are not exclusive to,

Non-HTTP(s) protocols that run over internet are various, some are 'blockchains' many are not; yet broadly, they're called Decentralised Ledger Tables.

Some examples include;
- [DAT](DAT.md)
- [IPFS](IPFS.md)
- [WebTorrent](WebTorrent.md)
- [Lightning Network](Lightning%20Network.md)
- [GUNECO](GUNECO.md)

Others, are still useful and important; but not DLTs, for example,

- [GIT](GIT.md) as is used for GitHub / GitLab, etc. 
- [WebRTC](WebRTC.md) As is used for Live Audio/Video Streaming
- [WebSockets](WebSockets.md) As is used for real-time notifications
- [Email Services](Email%20Services.md) As does somewhat need to be supported somehow in the ecosystem.

and there are many others. 

The methods are not seeking to suggest that any particular protocol (ie: web3 stuff) shouldn't be supported; but rather, that the design of these webizen systems requires HTTP(s) support. 

HTTP based protocols are also alot faster than many DLT solutions (depending on networking issues, etc.).

Commit message:

Hard Nights Work
Uploading the work done overnight - whilst assuming that there will be errors!

Webizen Tech Stack/Core Services/Non-HTTP(s) Protocols.md, after:

Non-HTTP(s) Protocols are helpful for [Decentralised Ontologies](Decentralised%20Ontologies.md), [Permissive Commons](Permissive%20Commons.md), [Verifiable Claims & Credentials](Verifiable%20Claims%20&%20Credentials.md) and in-turn also support for various forms of [Currencies](Currencies.md) (including Micro-Payments), although not exclusively.

A List of examples and candidates include; but are not exclusive to,

Non-HTTP(s) protocols that run over internet are various, some are 'blockchains' many are not; yet broadly, they're called Decentralised Ledger Tables.

Some examples include; in no particular order,

- [Lightning Network](Lightning%20Network.md)
- [[Chia]]
- [[Hedera]]
- [[IOTA]]
- [[obyte]]
- [[XRP Ledger]]
- [[NYM]]

Obviously also, there's also major 'crypto currency' focused protocols like [BitCoin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitcoin) and [Ethereum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethereum).  

Others, are still useful and important; but not DLTs, for example,

- [GUNECO](GUNECO.md)
- [DAT](DAT.md)
- [IPFS](IPFS.md)
- [WebTorrent](WebTorrent.md)
- [GIT](GIT.md) as is used for GitHub / GitLab, etc. 
- [WebRTC](WebRTC.md) As is used for Live Audio/Video Streaming
- [WebSockets](WebSockets.md) As is used for real-time notifications
- [Email Services](Email%20Services.md) As does somewhat need to be supported somehow in the ecosystem.

and there are many others. 

The methods are not seeking to suggest that any particular protocol (ie: web3 stuff) shouldn't be supported; but rather, that the design of these webizen systems requires HTTP(s) support. 

HTTP based protocols are also alot faster than many DLT solutions (depending on networking issues, etc.); and, part of the objective purpose of the [[Webizen Tech Stack]] is to advance the 'World Wide Web' based ecosystems (Semantic Web --> Social Web) as is distinct to creating an alternative to the World Wide Web and/or potentially also by extension - an alternative to Internet - through the primary use of alternative protocols as a priority.  There are many potential threats and underlying complexities that exist in relation to the emergence of new 'global' protocols, that are different to the sorts of characteristics that exist in relation to existing systems and services.  As such, a balance needs to be struck as to support scalability, which is a technically dynamic issue that is mostly defined via [[Social Factors]].

As is noted otherwise in the [[Engineering Considerations]] document; there is a great deal of deliberation going into figuring out how to ensure optimidation of [[Energy Calcs]].
