README.md, before:

# Webizen V1 Project Documentation
The [Webizen 1.0](Implementation%20V1/Webizen%201.0.md) [Design Goals Overview](Implementation%20V1/App-design-sdk-v1/Design%20Goals/Design%20Goals%20Overview.md) documents alongside the [Implementation V1 Summary](Implementation%20V1/Implementation%20V1%20Summary.md), provides information about the objectives, which seek to use [GoLang Libraries](Implementation%20V1/GoLang%20Libraries.md) as a means to quickly produce a solution that provides basic functionality as required to make progress.

**There are two packages required;**
a. An Implementation that can be installed and operated on a VPS:  [Server Functionality Summary (VPS|[VPS)](Implementation%20V1/vps/Server%20Functionality%20Summary%20(VPS)]].md)
b. An Implementation that can be easily installed and operated on Home Computers: [Webizen Local App Functionality](Implementation%20V1/edge/Webizen%20Local%20App%20Functionality.md) 

The project intends to improve upon the works already previously demonstrated as [GOLD](https://github.com/linkeddata/gold). 

The Webizen 1.0 will be used to develop the [Webizen Alliance](Commercial/Webizen%20Alliance.md) socio-technical framework.  Therefore, the objectives of the Webizen 1.0 Software Development (Platform) Project; is specifically targeted at providing the underlying system functionality required to build these systems using Semantic(RDF)Web(HTML/JS/CSS) app development practices.

### Webizen Project Documentation

1. Webizen 1.0 
3. Core Services
4. Core Technologies
5. Database Requirements
6. Host Service Requirements
7. Non-HTTP(s) Protocols
8. Webizen 2.0
9. Commercial

### History about the battle btw mainframes & personal computing
```html
<iframe src='https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1WXgSplqAB62oMSdwqli_1G3k37c0y6fZkZJLzc5Www8&font=Default&lang=en&hash_bookmark=true&initial_zoom=4&height=650' width='100%' height='650' webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen frameborder='0'></iframe>
```
#### DOCUMENT NOTES:
Some content is produced through the use of information obtained from Wikipedia.  The links are provided to the articles, where this is the case.


#intro #Summary #draft

Commit message:

push updates from today
Lots of writing...  lots draft, progress but more to do.

README.md, after:

# Webizen Docs Introduction

This is the Webizen Documentation site is being developed to provide an array of old work documents, a somewhat comprehensive outline of future work objectives and in-turn thereafter also; support for an outline of what is sought to be achieved via an initial implementation of a #Webizen solution.

The documentation library is under active development and will continue to be updated.  I am going to make [[Best Efforts]] to update the [[Work in Progress]] document, to reflect what i'm currently working on; and when these works become sufficently comprehensive and subsequently better edited, then this document will reflect those changes (ie: removal of this line).

If you are interested in being involved then send me a connection request on [linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ubiquitous/) and send me a message to let me know.  There is also a [Web Civics Discord](https://discord.gg/HX7W4gY45N) Group and various other bits and pieces lying about generally.  

### Webizen V1 Project Documentation
The [Webizen 1.0](Implementation%20V1/Webizen%201.0.md) [Design Goals Overview](Implementation%20V1/App-design-sdk-v1/Design%20Goals/Design%20Goals%20Overview.md) documents alongside the [Implementation V1 Summary](Implementation%20V1/Implementation%20V1%20Summary.md), provides information about the objectives, which seek to use [GoLang Libraries](Implementation%20V1/GoLang%20Libraries.md) as a means to quickly produce a solution that provides basic functionality as required to make progress.

The [[Work Methods Statement]] document provides some general information about the background, whilst the documents under the 'commercial' folder provide more general information.

**There are two packages required;**
a. An Implementation that can be installed and operated on a VPS:  [[Server Functionality Summary (VPS)]]
b. An Implementation that can be easily installed and operated on Home Computers: [Webizen Local App Functionality](Implementation%20V1/edge/Webizen%20Local%20App%20Functionality.md) 

The project intends to improve upon the works already previously demonstrated as [GOLD](https://github.com/linkeddata/gold). 

The Webizen 1.0 will be used to develop the [Webizen Alliance](Webizen%20Alliance.md) socio-technical framework.  Therefore, the objectives of the Webizen 1.0 Software Development (Platform) Project; is specifically targeted at providing the underlying system functionality required to build these systems using Semantic(RDF)Web(HTML/JS/CSS) app development practices.

### Webizen Project Documentation

1. Webizen 1.0 
3. Core Services
4. Core Technologies
5. Database Requirements
6. Host Service Requirements
7. Non-HTTP(s) Protocols
8. Webizen 2.0
9. Commercial

### History about the battle btw mainframes & personal computing
```html
<iframe src='https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1WXgSplqAB62oMSdwqli_1G3k37c0y6fZkZJLzc5Www8&font=Default&lang=en&hash_bookmark=true&initial_zoom=4&height=650' width='100%' height='650' webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen frameborder='0'></iframe>
```
#### DOCUMENT NOTES:
Some content is produced through the use of information obtained from Wikipedia.  The links are provided to the articles, where this is the case.  Other articles have been quickly generated using chat.openai.com.  The [[Documentation Method]] document also provides some information about how to create a site like this for yourself, and in-turn acts also to illustrate some points that are useful prior to doing more collaborative work on this documentation project with others. 


#intro #Summary #draft
