Work in Progress.md, before:

This is where i'll put information about the work in progress.

### [DevDocs (#this)](https://devdocs.webizen.org/)
This documentation environment has been built using [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/), [GitHub](https://github.com/), [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) and the [Obsidian Template for Gatsby](Obsibian Template for Gatsby).  The [[Documentation Method]] document explains how its done.

The process of producing the documentation; includes,
1. Writing Content about the architecture of the Webizen Project
2. Creating an Architectural Strategy for implementing stages of the webizen project; whilst supporting the means for developers to understand the broader goals / objectives, etc.
3. Downloading and converting old related works into the documentation environment.
4. Structuring the Content (ie: folders, etc) and improving the copy (editing).
5. Working to update the content to address considerations about the many topics, etc.

I am learning how to improve the functionality of this environment and will make updates accordingly. The publishing system (gatsby) uses react and doesn't appear to like embeds (ie: youtube, or [timelinejs](https://timeline.knightlab.com/) ); and there's an array of other functionality i'd like to see working ASAP.

#### DevDocs Feature Development Ideas

As i'm working through it; i am also constantly working on different ideas to improve this documentation sites features, as best as may be possible without employing alot of resources to do something that might be too hard or too expensive.  One of these areas of consideration is the ability to make improvements via the advancement of a [[Knowledge Documents]] solution, that would add various forms of functionality to this documentation solution; and in-turn, provide support for enhancing the solution down the track once there's a functioning Webizen Platform. 

### Ontology Modelling
The ontology modelling process is trying to address various requirements for [[Decentralised Ontologies]], [[Temporal Semantics]] and [[Permissive Commons]] which will in-turn support both the [[Safety Protocols]] as well as the [[Values Credentials]].

Much of the ontology work is in the [Web Civics - Ontologies 2023](https://github.com/WebCivics/ontologies/tree/2023) github folder / project. Some use of [Chat AI](https://chat.openai.com/) has been employed, that has helped a great deal in some ways; whilst also problematic.

Commit message:

Work done today
update

NB: I expect all the links to break, so I'll likely need to fix them once that occurs - if the update compiles (Fingers cross it works!)

Work in Progress.md, after:

This is where i'll put information about the work in progress.

### [DevDocs (#this)](https://devdocs.webizen.org/)
This documentation environment has been built using [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/), [GitHub](https://github.com/), [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) and the [Obsidian Template for Gatsby](Obsibian Template for Gatsby).  The [[Documentation Method]] document explains how its done.

The process of producing the documentation; includes,
1. Writing Content about the architecture of the Webizen Project
2. Creating an Architectural Strategy for implementing stages of the webizen project; whilst supporting the means for developers to understand the broader goals / objectives, etc.
3. Downloading and converting old related works into the documentation environment.
4. Structuring the Content (ie: folders, etc) and improving the copy (editing).
5. Working to update the content to address considerations about the many topics, etc.

I am learning how to improve the functionality of this environment and will make updates accordingly. The publishing system (gatsby) uses react and doesn't appear to like embeds (ie: youtube, or [timelinejs](https://timeline.knightlab.com/) ); and there's an array of other functionality i'd like to see working ASAP.

#### DevDocs Feature Development Ideas

As i'm working through it; i am also constantly working on different ideas to improve this documentation sites features, as best as may be possible without employing alot of resources to do something that might be too hard or too expensive.  One of these areas of consideration is the ability to make improvements via the advancement of a [[Knowledge Documents]] solution, that would add various forms of functionality to this documentation solution; and in-turn, provide support for enhancing the solution down the track once there's a functioning Webizen Platform. 

#### ISSUES

1. Content isn't anywhere near complete yet.  I've got alot in the archive.  Some also needs to be better described (noting prior use of 'social encryption' methods / testing those methods). 
2. There's some questions in my mind about how to address issues that have some personal and/or privacy related considerations linked to them.. In some ways, its a critical part of the journey; yet in other ways, it could be a distraction and/or unwanted / undesirable.
   
3. Whenever a page is moved or a directory mde, is breaks all the links. This is likely to be an on-going problem when using this environment to draft and publish works. 
5. I'm learning how to use this specific tech ecosystem.  
6. When importing (in particular); if there's some sort of problem with the MD file (an article, etc.) it fails to compile.  Every time there's a push to the GitHub Location - it recompiles.   When there is an issue, the log doesn't provide enough information to figure out what's wrong, other than being able to identify the file that's causing problems.
7. Whilst the ChatGPT Content provides a helpful start to writing content about a topic, it does need to be updated and reviewed; as such, the new pages where this has been used needs to be reviewed (when i get there)...


### Ontology Modelling
The ontology modelling process is trying to address various requirements for [[Decentralised Ontologies]], [[Temporal Semantics]] and [[Permissive Commons]] which will in-turn support both the [[Safety Protocols]] as well as the [[Values Credentials]].

Much of the ontology work is in the [Web Civics - Ontologies 2023](https://github.com/WebCivics/ontologies/tree/2023) github folder / project. Some use of [Chat AI](https://chat.openai.com/) has been employed, that has helped a great deal in some ways; whilst also problematic.
