# Social Contract Gamification

The concept of 'social contracts' is often used in connection to agreements that are made between people and/or betweeen people and a named group of persons. 

The concept of gamification, when applied to social contract concepts, through the lens of how the activity may be used to perform a social-attack; relates to an action or activity that involves at least 1 person intentionally producing a strategy that is intended to harm the target for whatever reason.  This may be due to various types of [[SocialAttackVectors]], yet the instigators do in-turn seek to engender an attack upon another person or persons; and others may in-turn become involved without being furnished an informed basis through which they are then in-turn made able to decern how and/or why they do so.  This is in-turn also characteristic of a type of behaviour that is carried out online that has the effect of inducing [[Dehumanisation]] behaviours and breaches to the underlying [[FreedomOfThought]] [[SafetyProtocols]] requirements. 

Not all problems are able to be canvassed in public. There are serious issues that relate to serious [[CriminalActivity]] that cannot be reasonably published online for all to employ as part of a gamification activity - notwithstanding the sense that some people appear to find personal gratification by engaging in activities that seek and/or successfully to do so.  There after harms upon one individual target may in-turn have negative and harmful impacts upon an array of persons that surround that individual, who the primary victim may seek to protect by ensuring the broader implications are unknown.

The most common method of social-contract gamification, is that a person with a higher-degree of influence and/or stature within a group; engages in a wrongful activity, and then goes about forming new documents and proclamations with the intended purpose of seeking to make it appear as though their target prosecuted behaviours that breached some form of reasonable moral standard; when in-fact, it was the attacker who breached those standards and perhaps also, any agreements or related instruments pertaining to the moral standards did not exist at the time of the event; which both provides a means through which the attacker, if found out, can claim that it didn't exist at the time so therefore they didn't break any agreements; but moreover the purposeful intent is to exact a [[TemporalAttacks]] upon their victim.

Various approaches and related tools that are sought to be produced to address these problems will be documented in the [[SafetyProtocols]] related considerations / notes.
