
Whilst a great deal of works were done up until the start of 2010;  the greatest volume of work and related personal sacrifices that have been survived, was done as a consequence of my witnessing organised child-abuse being enabled by business systems in an area that is critical to the definition of the identity development of children.  Whilst these adults, whom were mostly funded via the Government, made statements such to clearly state that the convention of the rights of the child played no role in their duties; and that, they were not able to provide any evidence or information that may be submitted to a court; irraspective of the tears and stories of why, as they spoke about being abused as a child, seeking me to feel sorry for them - rather than considering how it was that they were not able to be held accountable.  [[Public Sector Wrong Doings]] is so very serious, i wonder who is more dangerous; those who are professionally engaged in organised crime in the private sector, or those who do so with their colleages in the private sector, but as public sector employees.

As i was writing [[Webizen 3.0 Setup User Experience]] the need to make some design statements became clear.  The Webizen Environment and all related works are designed to protect the human rights of children and these requirements are non-negotiable.  There is alot that has been done, and a lot more that needs to be done; and in the interests of seeking to protect people - much of these works will need to be done via [[Trust Factory]] and related ecosystems (privately).  As  [[Webizen Tech Stack]] develops, [[Safety Protocols]] will advance to protect children that will have consequence regardless of the employer of any adults involved.  enough is enough - and there's alternatives for any persons who disagree and/or need to be expelled and/or clearly 'tagged' in the Webizen Ecosystem. 

Related notes are per below;

There are many major use-cases that relating to children specifically.  

Whilst this is most certainly - front of mind - the design related statements to support the needs of children as being amongst the most important parts of the broader purpose; has not yet been documented formerally; Noting also, its actually quite difficult to do really well.  

Whilst [[Webizen 3.5]] might find education industry customers - which would then in-turn bring about the works required to get these sorts of considerations sorted out far more quickly; previous experience of seeking to work with that segment in good faith - has not provided positive experiences at all.  the term 'dodgy' comes to mind, in relation to my experience with some fairly significant 'stakeholders' in that space.  Also, often they're somewhat lacking when it comes to considering the importance of the role of `family` as such, it may be important to ensure that support for `family` is provided before institutional curation of the [[HumanCentric Digital Identity]] of children; which, isn't necessarily going to stop them from advancing in these area as they are already; rather, it may act to protect children from the consequences of empowering dodgy and often unaccountable people whose practical associations with [[Safety Protocols]] and [[Social Attack Vectors]] leave a lot to be desired; and hopefully, in future, (these) systems will act to clean-up those problems in ramarkable ways - yet, there's going to be a volume of people who've been systemically engaged in behaviours that they may be ashamed of, but should fundamentally result in very serious penalties by law.  As such, that issue about having to figure out how to address the people i simply noted as being dodgy; isn't considered to be simple, easy or feasible in the early-stages of this project. 

It is fairly important to have a strongly fortified position before seeking to send child-abusers to a court of law where they may well face serious civil and criminal charges with consequence.

Resources associated to this field of work can be found in this part of the Peace Infrastrastructure Project [Google Drive Library AiEthics/Children](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1v-FYk4D8RfFeiX0vqMqXXIAsBPX-XFfk)

##### Definition of 'Adult'; safety for persons who are 18-25?

In Australia, when a person reaches the age of 18 they are defined to be an adult who is lawfully responsible and entitled to do whatever they want (so long as it is legal); yet, i am unsure of whether a person who is 18 years old is fully (nurologically) developed; and, i also have concerns about the (sexual) exploitation of young people by much older people; which as far as i am aware, is a problem that is far more likely to be something that female may be impacted by (ie: prostitution linked with severe mental illness and no-safety protocols).  Similarly yet different, it seems to me young male persons are more likely to get into trouble in relation to drugs (crime).

The social structures of defining the nature of requirements in relation to Human Development; is both important, and necessarily understaken in a way that considers many complex issues; whilst seeking to leverage [[Webizen Tech Stack]] in ways that act to process various types of [[Social Attack Vectors]] and thereby also - empower appropriate prosecutions and any related compensatory measures that may be appropriately also applied usefully.