---
id: 328
title: Events
date: '2012-11-28T04:31:22+10:00'
author: ubiquitous
layout: post
guid: 'http://www.mediaprophet.net/?p=84'
permalink: /events/
inline_featured_image:
    - '0'
categories:
    - Branding
    - Consulting
    - Presence
    - Start-ups
    - Tutorials
---

Well, You might think – what does events have to do with anything – but have a good think about it…

When you get your first customer group all put together, wouldn’t it be nice to put on a nice event for them. If you can’t produce one – perhaps send them to one, or participate in an existing one – like a tradeshow or something…

Events is part of professional representation – of the business. Have you had a think about how you could do this?

An event done well, can be the best form of advertising for your business. An event done poorly, can be worse than receiving nails for your businesses coffin, voluntarily provided from your patrons.

The “secret” to events; is about good preparation, pre-production and management. I was recently challenged to consider how many events i had done.

As i never considered myself an “event manager”, i never really thought about before. It almost seemed like a distractions. Yet, in the face of volunteering to a community event – with so many contributors – but some massive problems due to the leadership of the event (an inexperience) i had to think about it. Perhaps a hundred, perhaps many more. It’s not really what i think about overall….

Organising an event, is kinda like setting-up a dinner party or a teenagers house party; or even, a company meeting… Within each of these events, people take different roles. It’s important to identify what you do have experience in doing, and what you do not. People, with events, are generally rather helpful. If their not helpful, don’t bother (well, in my experience anyhow).

People who know events, know both that events hardly ever run without a problem of somekind. this is not to suggest they are all at risk of falling over, but rather – even events professionally planned – will have some sort of “hiccup” once it’s started. The difference really is; what doesn’t go wrong, because it was planned properly.

As always, templates is always a good-place to start when your thinking about how to set-up an event. It could be a digital event, it could be a wedding, it could be just about anything – if it’s too complicated to remember in your head, and have it sorted – a list, a template, can help.

Beyond the bigger problem of attempting to manage the delivery of the event – the next part, which is somewhat more professional in nature – is return on investment.

This is where the art of being an event manager comes into play.